Updated self-hosted guidelines for Linux and Mac (#90)
actions/setup-python: README.md

# Using `setup-python` with a self hosted runner

> If you would like to use `setup-python` and a self-hosted runner, there are a few extra things you need to make sure are set up so that new versions of Python can be downloaded and configured on your runner.

Reviewer: > make sure are set up 
+1 👍

### Windows

> - Your runner needs to be running with administrator privileges so that the appropriate directories and files can be setup when downloading and installing a new version of Python for the first time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your runner needs to be running with administrator privileges so that the appropriate directories and files can be set up when downloading and installing a new version of Python for the first time.
```

Reviewer: "set up" = verb, "setup" = noun

Author: 😑 I'm stupid.. this is like the 4th time you've caught this for me

- You need `7zip` installed and added to your `PATH` so that the downloaded versions of Python files can be extracted properly during first-time setup.
- MSI installers are used when setting up Python on Windows. A word of caution as MSI installers update registry settings.
- The 3.8 MSI installer for Windows will not let you install another 3.8 version of Python. If `setup-python` fails for a 3.8 version of Python, make sure any previously installed versions are removed by going to "Apps & Features" in the Settings app.

### Linux

> - The Python packages that are downloaded from `actions/python-versions` are originally compiled from source in `/opt/hostedtoolcache/` with the [--enable-shared](https://github.com/actions/python-versions/blob/94f04ae6806c6633c82db94c6406a16e17decd5c/builders/ubuntu-python-builder.psm1#L35) flag which makes them non portable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Python packages that are downloaded from `actions/python-versions` are originally compiled from source in `/opt/hostedtoolcache/` with the [--enable-shared](https://github.com/actions/python-versions/blob/94f04ae6806c6633c82db94c6406a16e17decd5c/builders/ubuntu-python-builder.psm1#L35) flag which makes them non-relocatable.

"Portable" usually refers to platforms.  "Relocatable" means moving it around in the filesystem.
```

> - Create an environment variable called `AGENT_TOOLSDIRECTORY` and set it to `/opt/hostedtoolcache`. This is used to control where Python gets set up and installed.

Reviewer: It would be better if we could use `RUNNER_TOOLSDIRECTORY`.   I think it would be easiest just to shim it in the action -- have `setup-python` set `AGENT_TOOLSDIRECTORY` to the value of `RUNNER_TOOLSDIRECTORY`.

Author: We got rid of the `RUNNER_TOOLSDIRECTORY` env variable, see the comment here: https://github.com/actions/setup-python/pull/85#discussion_r414791594

> - Create an environment variable called `AGENT_TOOLSDIRECTORY` and set it to `/opt/hostedtoolcache`. This is used to control where Python gets set up and installed.

Reviewer: Active voice is usually more clear:

```suggestion
- Create an environment variable called `AGENT_TOOLSDIRECTORY` and set it to `/opt/hostedtoolcache`. This controls where the runner downloads and installs tools.
```

>   - In the same shell that your runner is using, type `AGENT_TOOLSDIRECTORY=/opt/hostedtoolcache`

Reviewer: don't they have to `export`?

Author: If it's in the same shell I had the runner pick it up without `export`. Regardless, I added `export` to the example

  - A more permanent way of setting the environment variable is to create a `.env` file in the same directory as your runner and to add `AGENT_TOOLSDIRECTORY=/opt/hostedtoolcache`. This ensures the variable is always set if your runner is configured as a service.

> - It is not possible to start the Linux runner with `sudo` and the `/opt` directory usually requires root privileges to write to. To get around this you can change certain permissions.

Reviewer: More generally, "the user starting the runner must have write permission to the `/opt` directory.  This can be accomplished in different ways:
- Runner user is the owner, and owner has write permission
- Runner user is in the owning group, and owning group has write permission
- All users have write permission

Reviewer: Also, I'm not sure what the implications are for configuring the runner as a service.  I know Windows services have a different set of users instead of running as the logged-on user (by definition, this is what makes them a service).

Author: So on Linux and Mac we should be fine. Doing `sudo ./svc.sh install` shows the user the service will run on (at least for me it's showing the same thing, `konradpabjan`): https://help.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/configuring-the-self-hosted-runner-application-as-a-service

On Windows, you need to be running as admin to configure the runner as a service: 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16109154/81543129-f4753480-9375-11ea-915d-e6249be1f814.png)

Even when running as admin, it asks for the user account that you would like the service to run as, I'll add a note to make sure users watch out for this: 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/16109154/81544051-3c488b80-9377-11ea-8db2-f3c951cc8530.png)

If you would like to use `setup-python` and a self-hosted runner, there are a few extra things you need to make sure are set up so that new versions of Python can be downloaded and configured on your runner.

### Windows

- Your runner needs to be running with administrator privileges so that the appropriate directories and files can be set up when downloading and installing a new version of Python for the first time.
- If your runner is configured as a service, make sure the account that is running the service has the appropriate write permissions so that Python can get installed. The default `NT AUTHORITY\NETWORK SERVICE` should be sufficient. 
- You need `7zip` installed and added to your `PATH` so that the downloaded versions of Python files can be extracted properly during first-time setup.
- MSI installers are used when setting up Python on Windows. A word of caution as MSI installers update registry settings.
- The 3.8 MSI installer for Windows will not let you install another 3.8 version of Python. If `setup-python` fails for a 3.8 version of Python, make sure any previously installed versions are removed by going to "Apps & Features" in the Settings app.

### Linux

> - The Python packages that are downloaded from `actions/python-versions` are originally compiled from source in `/opt/hostedtoolcache/` with the [--enable-shared](https://github.com/actions/python-versions/blob/94f04ae6806c6633c82db94c6406a16e17decd5c/builders/ubuntu-python-builder.psm1#L35) flag which makes them non-relocatable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Python packages that are downloaded from `actions/python-versions` are originally compiled from source in `/opt/hostedtoolcache/` with the [--enable-shared](https://github.com/actions/python-versions/blob/94f04ae6806c6633c82db94c6406a16e17decd5c/builders/ubuntu-python-builder.psm1#L35) flag, which makes them non-relocatable.
```

Use a comma when the relative clause is "non-defining:" https://dictionary.cambridge.org/de/grammatik/britisch-grammatik/relative-clauses-defining-and-non-defining

- Create an environment variable called `AGENT_TOOLSDIRECTORY` and set it to `/opt/hostedtoolcache`. This controls where the runner downloads and installs tools.
  - In the same shell that your runner is using, type `export AGENT_TOOLSDIRECTORY=/opt/hostedtoolcache`
  - A more permanent way of setting the environment variable is to create a `.env` file in the same directory as your runner and to add `AGENT_TOOLSDIRECTORY=/opt/hostedtoolcache`. This ensures the variable is always set if your runner is configured as a service.
- Create a directory called `hostedtoolcache` inside `/opt`.
- The user starting the runner must have write permission to the `/opt/hostedtoolcache` directory. It is not possible to start the Linux runner with `sudo` and the `/opt` directory usually requires root privileges to write to. Check the current user and group that the runner belongs to by typing `ls -l` inside the runners root directory.
- The runner can be granted write access to the `/opt/hostedtoolcache` directory using a few techniques:

>   - Runner user is the owner, and the owner has write permission

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Runner user is the owner, and the owner has write permission
```

>   - Runner user is the owner, and the owner has write permission

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The user starting the runner is the owner, and the owner has write permission
```

We shouldn't omit "the," on the principle "speak like a human."

>   - Runner user is in the owning group, and the owning group has write permission

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The user starting the runner is in the owning group, and the owning group has write permission
```
